[docs] describe console logging of the build process (#18816)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/debugging-the-build-process.md

In this guide you will learn how to debug some code using:

> - [Debugging with Node.js' built-in console](#debugging-with-nodejs-built-in-console)

Reviewer: One more thing: this hard-coded table of contents can be removed as there's an automatic one on the page now.

    D:/dev/blog-v2/gatsby-node.js:6:12
```

## Debugging with Node.js' built-in console

One of the fastest ways to gain insight into Gatsby's build process is using the `console` functionality [built into Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/knowledge/getting-started/the-console-module/). This works similar to how you might be used to in the browser.

Adding a `console.log` statement in the sample from above will print the variable into your terminal. There you might notice that `args` contains a lower-cased node variable.

```diff:title=gatsby-node.js
const { createFilePath } = require("gatsby-source-filesystem")

exports.onCreateNode = args => {

> + console.log(args)

Reviewer 2: maybe it is better here to use `// highlight-line` so the syntax highlighter we can set to javascript?

Reviewer 3: That's a good catch. This was recently merged, so feel free to open a new PR to address this.

    D:/dev/blog-v2/gatsby-node.js:6:12
```

## Debugging with Node.js' built-in console

One of the fastest ways to gain insight into Gatsby's build process is using the `console` functionality [built into Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/knowledge/getting-started/the-console-module/). This works similar to how you might be used to in the browser.

> Adding a console.log statement in our sample from above will print the variable into your terminal. There you might notice that `args` contains a lower-cased node variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding a `console.log` statement in the sample from above will print the variable into your terminal. There you might notice that `args` contains a lower-cased node variable.
```

Updating to adhere to the Gatsby Style Guide: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#use-you-as-the-pronoun

```diff:title=gatsby-node.js
const { createFilePath } = require("gatsby-source-filesystem")

exports.onCreateNode = args => {
+ console.log(args)
  const { actions, Node } = args
  if (Node.internal.type === "MarkdownRemark") {
    const { createNodeField } = actions

    const value = createFilePath({ node, getNode })
    createNodeField({
      name: `slug`,
      node,
      value,
    })
  }
}
```

> For a refresher what is part of the build process check out the differences between [build and runtime](/docs/overview-of-the-gatsby-build-process#build-time-vs-runtime). Generally spoken, Node.js is responsible for building Gatsby pages and therefore its' built-in objects like `console` can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read more about Gatsby's build process, check out the differences between [build and runtime](/docs/overview-of-the-gatsby-build-process#build-time-vs-runtime). Generally spoken, Node.js is responsible for building Gatsby pages and therefore its' built-in objects like `console` can be used at build time. At client-side [runtime](/docs/glossary#runtime), the browser's `console.log` API will add messages to the developer tools console. 
```
